----

# <a href="#20150528" id="20150528">#</a> Value Driven Development

May 28, 2015.

_Value Driven Development_ or VDD emphasizes improving life of
**maintaining legacy code without tests**.  The suggestions
here do not apply to all situations.  I would recommend these
suggestions for bugs you can fix, and test under an hour.

**Prefer small bug fixes. Avoid writing tests and refactoring until
    they are absolutely required.**

### Working with legacy code is what we do mostly.

When faced with modifying legacy code, most people start with writing
tests. That might involve refactoring code first to make it testable.
This may take weeks if you are not careful. This is not productive.

### That is not lost productivity.

Right; "the code is more maintainable", "the code is more readable", and
etc.

Well, ugly or not, **legacy code has been around**. In
other words, it has been tested in the real world. If it is a one-off
bug, then what are chances that you will have to come back to it again?
Not all situations work out well.  We will talk about that later. If a
particular area is troublesome, then you must consider other ways to
resolve that. VDD is not suitable for these cases.

### Think of it this way.

This insanity perfectly pleases capitalistic minds. **Source code is a
business**. You may argue that it is a business asset -- that
is fine. **Every bug is an investment opportunity** because
fixing it will increase the business value -- yes, pun intended.  The
best return from an investment depends on gaining more value than any
resource invested; for example, time or salary. It makes sense to
minimize the work required to address a problem.

### Okay, what are you cutting out from this business?

Small fixes are easier to verify manually than large refactoring changes
thanks to (a) scopes of change; and (b) minimal chances of
regression. **Fix bug without writing tests first**. Please
test fixes locally to avoid wasting code review and testing time.
**Problems found in code reviews or testing indicate the need to write
tests.** Then, go write some tests.

### What if problems persist in the same area?

Then, I guess it is time for a heavy-duty refactoring/clean-up axe.
