----
# <a href="#20150622" id="20150622">#</a> Class Constructors

June 22, 2015.

I recently decided to make a rule about default parameters in C# or any similar
objected oriented language. Why? I found it useful for my work.

### Where do we specify default values for class constructor parameters?

I apologize for indentation and omitting access modifiers. Here is an
example in C#.

    class History {
      // A list of old values.
      IList<long> m_values;

      // Initialize with pre-loaded data
      // or no history.
      History(IList<long> v = null) {
        // m_values = v ?? new IList<long>();
        if (v == null) {
          m_values = new IList<long>();
        } else {
          m_values = v;
        }
      }
    }

    class HistoryFactory {
      Create(IList<long> v = null) {
        return new History(v);
      }
    }

Constructors should assume that its dependencies are correctly initialized when
object creation has been delegated to a framework like a factory or dependency
injection.  For example, I think this works better.

    class History {
      // A list of old values.
      IList<long> m_values;

      // Initialize with pre-loaded data
      // or no history.
      History(IList<long> v) {
        m_values = v;
      }
    }

    class HistoryFactory {
      Create(IList<long> v = null) {
        var h = v ?? new IList<long>();
        return new History(h);
      }
    }

### Default values are configuration data.

I think this separates data and code. When default values change, the core logic
stays the same.

While it is common to create new objects in constructors like ours, I delegate
that to a factory. This allows me to create an object with a long history for
testing while providing a way to reload history from external resources.
