posts/about.md, before:

<script>
var navbar_active = '#navbar-about-button';
</script>

# <a href="#about" id="about">#</a> About

July 19, 2015.

### I code for amusement.

My name is [Brian Lee](http://koreanbrian.com). I am a hacker as in "I code for
amusement." I am not a software developer or engineer. Computer Science,
Computer and Software Engineering complement my interests but not the focus. I
am interested in programming as a writing process.

To me, programming is a process of describing a solution to a problem in the
finest detail. It reminds me of many afternoons I spent as a part of a school
science team in elementary school. I remember very little science from that
experience. But I remember one wisdom. Good organization and presentation lead
to clarity.

### Why another programming website?

I created [valuedrivendev.com](http://valuedrivendev.com) is to help establish a
technical writing style. It is a narrow and specific goal without a grand
design. I like it that way. I hope this is more achievable than my grand startup
ideas.

This website started as a joke. It really did. Somewhere along the way, close
co-workers and friends of mine provided encouraging feedback. I decided to give
content creation a try. Writing articles for VDD will hopefully improve my
reading, writing and editing skills. I hope you enjoy the content.

### Disclaimer

All content including personal opinions and reflections are mine. I do not
expect all of them to be reasonable. However, I am sure somebody shares similar
thoughts. If you disagree with me, I understand. I would like to present another
perspective.

Commit message:

Update and rewrite parts of about.
This will be a long running, forever-in-draft content.

posts/about.md, after:

<script>
var navbar_active = '#navbar-about-button';
</script>

# <a href="#about" id="about">#</a> About

July 19, 2015.

### I code for amusement.

My name is [Brian Lee](http://koreanbrian.com). I am a hacker as in "I code for
amusement." I am not a software developer or engineer. Computer Science,
Computer and Software Engineering complement my interests but not the focus. I
am interested in programming as a writing process.

To me, computer programming is a process of describing a solution to a problem
in detail. Programming reminds me of many afternoons I spent in a science lab
after school as a child; running experiments, writing reports and learning how
to organize and present data. I remember little science from those afternoons.
But I remember that good organization and presentation lead to clarity. The
applies to programming, and it is my love.

### Why another programming website?

I hope to improve my technical writing style by running
[valuedrivendev.com](http://valuedrivendev.com). I do not expect to change the
world of technical writing. Personal satisfaction is good enough for me. Who
said developing a style is easy?  Nobody. But I owe it to myself to constantly
find a challenging hobby.

This website started as a protest against fanaticism in the software industry.
The [first article](/#20150528) carried the fanatic tone of "I am right. All other
methodologies make no sense." Somewhere along the way, close co-workers and
friends provided encouraging feedback. Thanks to them, I decided to give content
creation a try.  I hope you enjoy the content despite the lack of an editor and
amateur mishaps.

### Disclaimer

All content including personal opinions and reflections are mine. I do not
expect all of them to be reasonable. However, I am sure somebody shares similar
thoughts. If you disagree with me, I understand. I would like to present another
perspective.
