# <a href="#20150712" id="20150712">#</a> Source Code Documentation

July 12, 2015.

I noticed a bug about a week ago in my code. The project had been on hold for
about two months. I figured, "it is about time." To my surprise, diagnosing the
problem took some effort despite the detailed documentation. Then I found the
bug in a piece of poorly documented code. Go figure.

What about unit tests? I discuss unit tests at the end of this post.

### The Bug

I wrote a function to replace a prefix of a path with another one.

    ;; Re-anchor :name from a to b.
    (defn replace-prefix
      [path a b]
      (clojure.string/replace path a b))

This was a quick hack for a prototype. Of course, I used the same excuse to skip
tests. This function has a few bugs. Can you spot them?

The function seems simple in isolation, but the bug analysis expands the scope
of work. Are there similar problems elsewhere?  Should I refactor the code and
create a well-tested utility function? It never ends. I told myself, "I wish I
had left more context behind."

I would have found logic errors if I tried to explain this function to myself
using examples. For instance, I may have added the following in documentation.

<pre><code class="clojure">;; For example,
;;  (replace-prefix "/r/a" "/r/" "/R") => "/R/a"
;;  (replace-prefix "/r/a" "/r"  "/R") => "/R/a"
</code></pre>

Claims made in examples do not reflect the implementation.

    (replace-prefix "/r/a" "/r/" "/R") => "/Ra"  ; Bad.
    (replace-prefix "/r/a" "/r"  "/R") => "/R/a" ; Good.

A possible solution is shown below.

    (defn replace-prefix
      [path old-prefix new-prefix]
      (str new-prefix
           separator
           (clojure.string/replace path old-prefix "")))

This function is still incomplete because it does not address many cases.

1. What happens when `old-prefix` is not a prefix of `path`?
2. What about repeated path separators? Does it matter?
3. And so on.

### Examples, examples, examples!

I love it when a programmer takes time and care to document illustrative
examples in source code. User contributed examples seem very effective as well;
see [clojure.core/map][1] for instance.

Listing all expected behaviours of a function exhaustively has no value because
it leaves creating a concise summary to readers. On the other hand, providing a
few representative examples is pragmatic but more difficult than the former.
That does mean that we should skip it.

### What about unit tests?

I like well-tested utility functions. They are even better when they come with
documentation full of examples. A reliable and automated unit test suite may be
a better solution than a list of input and output pairs. But don't you see? You
need some possible input and output pairs to write tests!

[1]: https://clojuredocs.org/clojure.core/map "clojure.core/map"
