# <a href="#20150721" id="20150721">#</a> Jumbo Patches

July 21, 2015.

### My frustration

was at the critical mass when I sent this email to the whole team.  Juniors
needed a reminder. The technical lead didn't get it. I told the boss about my
frustrations. But nothing changed.

### Please stop writing jumbo patches.

Not all jumbo patches are bad. But some are nasty. Nasty jumbo patches are
by-products of source code heroics or refactoring and bug fixes. Refactoring is
_damned_ hard. It requires regression testing, domain expertise and care to
avoid the trap of meaningless personal preferences.  Add bug fixes on top of
that.

How many senior developers would you like to sacrifice to review nasty jumbo
patches?

### All patches should be atomic.

That is, a patch should be the smallest coherent change set possible to address
one issue. A reviewer should not be asked to distinguish between bug fixes,
subtle changes in behaviours and code clean up. Why aren't they separate
patches?

### A small patch is manageable.

Reviewers and testers can focus on changes with the most value. A small patch
localizes production issues due to a limited scope. A small patch invites
reviewers with varying levels of technical skills and expertise. A small patch
makes me happy.

### This is not just my opinion.

Open source software has developed practical guidelines that scale to a large
group of talented developers. The contribution guidelines in Linux provide great
insights. GCC, Perl and Python share similar thoughts.

<span class="hlquote">All emphasis are mine.</span>

[How to Get Your Change Into the Linux Kernel or
Care And Operation Of Your Linus Torvalds](https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/SubmittingPatches)

> Solve only <span class="hlquote">one problem per patch</span>. If your
> description starts to get long, that's a sign that you probably need to split
> up your patch.

> <span class="hlquote">Separate each _logical change_ into a separate
> patch.</span>

[The perfect patch](http://www.ozlabs.org/~akpm/stuff/tpp.txt)

> If your patch series includes <span class="hlquote">non-runtime-affecting
> things</span> such as cleanups, whitespace fixes, file renames, moving
> functions around, etc. then this work should be done in the <span
> class="hlquote">initial patches</span> in the series. The <span
> class="hlquote">functional changes</span> should come <span
> class="hlquote">later</span> in the series.

[Contributing to GCC](https://gcc.gnu.org/contribute.html)

> <span class="hlquote">Don't mix together changes made for different
> reasons.</span> Send them individually.  Ideally, <span class="hlquote">each
> change</span> you send should be <span class="hlquote">impossible to
> subdivide</span> into parts that we might want to consider separately, because
> each of its parts gets its motivation from the other parts. In particular,
> changes to <span class="hlquote">code formatting</span> to conform to coding
> standards are <span class="hlquote">best not mixed with substantive
> changes</span>, because that makes it difficult to see what the real changes
> are.

[perlhack](http://perldoc.perl.org/perlhack.html)

> _Does it potentially introduce new bugs?_
>
> Radical <span class="hlquote">rewrites</span> of large chunks of the Perl
> interpreter have the <span class="hlquote">potential to introduce new
> bugs.</span>


> _How big is it?_
>
> The <span class="hlquote">smaller</span> and more <span
> class="hlquote">localized</span> the change, the <span
> class="hlquote">better</span>. Similarly, a series of small patches is <span
> class="hlquote">greatly preferred</span> over a single large patch.


> _Does it create too much work?_
>
> Work for the pumpking, work for Perl programmers, work for module authors, ...
> Perl is <span class="hlquote">supposed to be easy.</span>

[Python Developer's Guide](https://docs.python.org/devguide/committing.html)

> We usually prefer to put a whole feature or bugfix into a single commit, but
> no more. In particular:

> * <span class="hlquote">Do not fix more than one issue</span> in the same
> commit (except, of course, if one code change fixes all of them).
> * <span class="hlquote">Do not do cosmetic changes to unrelated code</span> in
> the same commit as some feature/bugfix.
