# <a href="#20150730" id="20150730">#</a> 0 to 1

July 30, 2015.

A [flip-flop](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flip-flop_%28electronics%29) is
fundamental building block of a computer. A flip-flop can store an input signal
&mdash; on or off &mdash; as a state and generate an output matching the stored
input. This enables a binary number system by treating the "on" state as 1 and
the "off" state as 0. A "bit" is 0 or 1. A flip-flop is suitable for storing
one bit. Eight bits make a "byte." When a program asks a computer to change a bit,
a byte containing the bit is retrieved, modified and stored on computer memory
or a hard drive as a whole. A byte is the smallest unit of information.

Computer memory or [random-access
memory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Random-access_memory) (RAM) stores many
gigabytes of information &mdash; a gigabyte has 1073741824 bits, not one billion
bits. RAM is made of a grid of flip-flops connected by electrical paths. Changes
to a byte require state transitions in eight flip-flops representing one unit of
information. Nobody likes half baked bits, and flip-flop changes must be
synchronized. A [crystal
oscillator](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crystal_oscillator) or "clock" is used
to coordinate reading and writing information because a periodic pulse acts as a
traffic light. When a clock generates a pulse, the traffic light says "go," and
you are free to read or modify bytes. When a clock is in-between pulses, the
traffic light says "stop and wait." We wait for pending operations to finish.

I flip bits when I press a key on my keyboard. I am a conductor for the mighty
electrons if you will. I view computer programs in the same light &mdash; they
flip bits. I often joke that a computer program is nothing more than a for-loop.
A for-loop reads, "for every input specified, generate an appropriate output."
Oversimplification?  Perhaps.

The essence of a program is to generate an output given an input. Even a simple
assignment is a flip-flop morphing function.

    int a = 1;

Just like that, I flipped bits in computer memory to reflect my thoughts.
Writing the previous sentence was no different. My beloved
[`vim`](http://www.vim.org) flips bits in memory, then the computer faithfully
stores the bits on a hard drive. I am not the mastermind behind this. Some
clever electrical, computer and system engineers; computer scientists and
hackers have translated their soul into a big blob of transistors. This crazy
world of mine, what would I do without this love?

I get a sense of control when I type away on a keyboard. Keys make pleasing
sound. Letters on the screen fly by. But this well coordinated magic is beyond
my skills and understanding. That is okay. They say some mystery keeps a loving
relationship healthy. I will let my computers keep the blue smoke inside.

Can this explain my love for details in my technical work? I aim to understand
inner workings of a computer at every level accessible to me. Sadly, I am not
smart enough to understand them fully. I leave the true understanding of the
machine to people far exceeding my intelligence. I watch from sidelines and take
what I can so my undying love makes me warm and fuzzy.
